# daily-programmer
Daily challenges on Op Code daily-programmer Slack Channel



*[Tuesday 07/10/18] Daily Programmer*

// Given this JS object array, write a function that adds up the total time and returns it in hr:min:sec format, with leading zeros, as needed for minutes and/or seconds. 
For example: 2:03:04

const vids = [ { title: "JSON", time: 19:22 },
               { title: "Callbacks", time: 27:33 },
               { title: "Recursion", time: 17:06 },
               { title: "Array Methods", time: 38:05 },
               { title: "Closure", time: 18:22 },
               { title: "AJAX", time: 25:38 } ]



*[Friday 07/13/18] Daily Programmer*

/* Fizz Buzz Test
The "Fizz-Buzz test" is an interview question. The text of the programming assignment is as follows: "Write a program that prints the numbers from 1 to 100. But for multiples of three print “Fizz” instead of the number and for the multiples of five print “Buzz”. For numbers which are multiples of both three and five print “FizzBuzz”."
*/


*[Monday 07/16/18] Daily Programmer*

// Swap a and b in-place without using a temporary variable
// a and b will be numbers

let a = 1
let b = 2

// WRITE YOUR CODE HERE

console.log(a) // should be 2
console.log(b) // should be 1

*[Sunday 07/22/18] Daily Programmer*

/* Given this object with key-value pairs of Roman numerals and their numeric equivalents, write a function that takes any number as its argument and returns the Roman numeral equivalent. For example, calling the function: romanize(2018) returns MMXVIII 
HINT: The Javascript solution I have requires recursion (the function calling itself over and over as it concatenates the answer. */
const keys = { M: 1000, CM: 900, D: 500, CD: 400, C: 100, XC: 90, L: 50, XL: 40, X: 10, IX: 9, V: 5, IV: 4, I: 1 };

*[Saturday 07/28/18] Daily Programmer*

*Count Vowels* (_Basic_)

Write a function that takes a string and returns the number of vowels in the string. You may assume that all the letters are lower-cased.  You can treat 'y' as a consonant.

```countVowels('abcd')    // 1
countVowels('color')   // 2
countVowels('colour')  // 3
countVowels('cecilia') // 4```

*Calculator* (_Intermediate_)

Given an arithmetic equation string consisting only of positive integers, `+`, `-`, `*` and `/` (no parentheses), compute the result down 3 decimal places with no rounding.  (CTCI 16.26)

```calculate('1+1') === 2
calculate(' 4 *2') === 8
calculate('2 + 3 * 5') === 17
calculate('1+2*3-4/2') === 5
calculate('1/8') === 0.125
calculate('1/12') === 0.833
calculate('1+2*3/4+5*6/7') === 6.785```


*[SUNDAY 07/31/18] Daily Programmer*

*Dasherize* (_Basic_)

Write a function that takes in a number and returns a string, placing a single dash before and after each odd digit. There is one exception: don't start or end the string with a dash.

```dasherize(203) === '20-3'
dasherize(303) === '3-0-3'
dasherize(333) === '3-3-3'
dasherize(3223) === '3-22-3'```

*Truckin'* (_Intermediate_)

Given a fleet of 50 trucks, each with a full fuel tank and a range of 100 miles, how far can you deliver a payload?

* You can transfer the payload from truck to truck.
* You can transfer fuel from truck to truck.
* All the payload will fit in one truck.
(_No coding needed_)

*Productify* (_Difficult_)

Given a list of numbers in an array, replace all the numbers with the product of all other numbers.

* Do this in O(n) time.
* Do not use division.
* Example: [2, 3, 6] => [18, 12, 6]


*[Monday July 30th 2018 - Daily Programmer]*

*Odd Sum* (_Basic_)

Write a function oddSum(numbers), which takes in an array of integers and returns the sum of all the odd elements.

```oddSum([1,2,3,4,5]) === 9 // 1 + 3 + 5 = 9
oddSum([0,6,4,4]) === 0
oddSum([1,2,1]) === 2```

*Contiguous Sequence* (_Advanced_)
You are given an array of integers (both positive and negative). Find the contiguous sequence with the largest sum. Return the sum. (CTCI 16.17)

```Input [2, -8, 3, -2, 4, -10] 
Output 5 // [3, -2, 4]```

Solve it in O(n) time and O(1) space. 


*=== Tuesday July 31st 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Even Fibonnacci Sum]*

```Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:

[1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...]

By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms.```  
(https://projecteuler.net/problem=2)

I believe this can be brute-forced, but let's strive for better!  
Let's start with generating a Fibonacci sequence.

1)  Start by write a function `generateFib(n)` that generates the Fibonacci sequence upto `n`.  Ex) `generateFib(20)` returns [1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13]. 
2)  Then write the same function recursively (You can do this in step 1 if you would like).
3)  Then write it with memoization.

You can solve the problem at any point once you write a `generateFib()` function, but let's learn about different ways we can write it.  

(This question is for @Lerena Holloway!  I had the pleasure of getting to better know Lerena at the OpCode NYC meetup last week, and I am so excited for her!  Lerena, please ask any questions you may have solving this problem.)

*[Swap Sum]*

Given two arrays of integers, find a pair of values (one value from each array) that you can swap to give the two arrays the same sum. (CTCI 16.21)

```Input: [4, 1, 2, 1, 1, 2] and [3, 6, 3, 3]
Output: [1, 3]```


*=== Wednesday August 1st 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*Framing* (_Fun!_)

Write a function that takes a list of strings an prints them, one per line, in a rectangular frame. For example the list ["Hello", "World", "in", "a", "frame"] gets printed as:

```*********
* Hello *
* World *
* in    *
* a     *
* frame *
*********```

*Majority Element* (_Advanced_)
A majority element is an element that makes up more than half of the items in an array. Given a positive integers array, find the majority element. If there is no majority element, return -1. Do this in 0 (N) time and O(1) space. (CTCI 17.10)

```Input: [ 1, 2, 5, 9, 5, 9, 5, 5, 5] 
Output: 5```


*=== Thursday August 2nd 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*Prime Number*

Write a method that takes in an integer (greater than one) and returns true if it is prime; otherwise return false.

```isPrime(2) === true
isPrime(3) === true
isPrime(4) === false
isPrime(9) === false```

*Two Buckets*
You have two buckets – 1 has a 5 quart capacity and the other has 3 quarts. They both have irregular shapes – that means you cannot tell by simply looking how full the buckets are unless you fully fill them up with water. Now, with unlimited supply of water, how would you obtain 4 quarts of water using the two buckets?


*=== Friday August 3rd 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*Digital Root*
Sum the digits of a positive integer to form the digital root. 
The resulting root, should be a single digit (0..9).

```digitalRoot(1) # => 1
digitalRoot(22) # => 4
digitalRoot(58) # => 4```

* If a number is greater than or equal to 10, sum the digits of the resulting number.  
* Repeat until there is only one digit remaining, called the "digital root".
* Do not use string conversion.
* This is a base 10 integer

*Troll Toll* :troll:
You are on your way to visit your Grandma, who lives at the end of the valley.
It's her birthday, and you want to give her the cakes you've made.

* Between your house and her house, you have to cross 7 bridges
* There is a troll under every bridge!
 * Each troll insists that you have to give them half of the cakes you are carrying
 * They are kind trolls, so they each give you back a single cake
* Trolls deal in integer division (no fractions)

How many cakes do you have to leave home with to make sure that you arrive at Grandma's with exactly 2 cakes?


*Operations*
Write functions to implement the multiply, subtract, and divide operations for integers. The results of all of these are integers. Use only the add operator.


*=== Saturday August 4th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*0-1 Knapsack*

Given a set of items, each with a weight and a value, determine the maximum value that meets the weight constraint.

```const maximizeValue = (values, weights, maxWeight) => {

}

       // item ->  a  b   c   d   e   f
const values =  [ 20, 5, 10, 40, 15, 25]
const weights = [  1, 2,  3,  8,  7,  4]

maximizeValue(values, weights, 10)``` 
`maxValue` is 60 with the combination of `a`` and `d` at the combined weight of 9.

*Weight Balance*

- You are provided with 8 balls.
- One of the balls is heavier than the rest.
- Find the heavier ball using a weight balance. 
- You are only allowed to use the weight balance twice.
*Visualization of the knapsack problem:* (edited)
Pasted image at 2018-08-04, 11:22 AM 


*=== Sunday August 5th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*N-Queens*
Place `N` number of queens on a `N` x `N` chessboard where no queens threaten each other.  (There is a solution to all integer `N` above 3) (edited)
Example Solution for N=8:
Pasted image at 2018-08-05, 11:51 AM 

think about it for a little bit, but don't feel bad about googling it and watching some youtube videos.  also, i haven't solved yesterday's problems.  i'll try solving them today if i hvae the time.


*=== Monday August 6th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*Sort 3*
Given three inte gers, print them in sorted order using `max` function and no `if` statements.

Examples :
```Input  : a = 3, b = 2, c = 9
Output : 2 3 9

Input  : a = 4, b = 1, c = 9
Output : 1 4 9```

*Coin Change*
Given a value N, if we want to make change for N cents, and we have infinite supply of each of S = { S1, S2, .. , Sm} valued coins, how many ways can we make the change? The order of coins doesn’t matter.

For example, for N = 4 and S = {1,2,3}, there are four solutions: {1,1,1,1},{1,1,2},{2,2},{1,3}. So output should be 4. For N = 10 and S = {2, 5, 3, 6}, there are five solutions: {2,2,2,2,2}, {2,2,3,3}, {2,2,6}, {2,3,5} and {5,5}. So the output should be 5.


*=== Tuesday August 7th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*Apple Stock*

You are given an array of stock prices.  
* The indices are the time (in minutes) past trade opening time, which was 9:30am local time.
* The values are the price (in US dollars) of one share of Apple stock at that time.

So if the stock cost $500 at 10:30am, that means stockPrices[60] = 500.

Write an efficient function that takes stockPrices and returns the best profit that could have made from one purchase and one sale of one share of Apple stock yesterday.

For example:
```const stockPrices = [10, 7, 5, 8, 11, 9];

getMaxProfit(stockPrices);
// Returns 6 (buying for $5 and selling for $11)```

No "shorting"—you need to buy before you can sell. Also, you can't buy and sell in the same time step—at least 1 minute has to pass


*=== Wednesday August 8th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*
*Reverse In Place*
Given pointer to the head node of a linked list, reverse it in place.  
("In Place" means creating no additional structure, and perform the algorithm by mutating the original data.)

*Rope Burn*
You have two ropes and a lighter. Each rope has the following property: If you light one end of the rope, it will take one hour to burn to the other end. They don't necessarily burn at a uniform rate. How can you measure a period of 45 minutes? 
(This is a very famous problem, so you most likely won't run into it.  But it is definitely fun to think about)


*=== Wednesday August 8th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*Smallest Subarray Sum*
Given an array of integers and a number x, find the smallest subarray with sum greater than the given value.

```Examples:
arr[] = {1, 4, 45, 6, 0, 19}
   x  =  51
Output: 3
Minimum length subarray is {4, 45, 6}

arr[] = {1, 10, 5, 2, 7}
   x  = 9
Output: 1
Minimum length subarray is {10}

arr[] = {1, 11, 100, 1, 0, 200, 3, 2, 1, 250}
    x = 280
Output: 4
Minimum length subarray is {100, 1, 0, 200}

arr[] = {1, 2, 4}
    x = 8
Output : Not Possible
Whole array sum is smaller than 8.```
Brute:  O(n^2)
Optimal:   O(n)



*=== Friday August 10th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*Closest Palindrome*
Given an integer n, find the closest integer (not including itself), which is a palindrome.

The 'closest' is defined as absolute difference minimized between two integers.

```Input: "123"
Output: "121"

Input: "99800"
Output: "99799"

Input: "10"
Output: "9"```
The input n is a positive integer represented by string, whose length will not exceed 18.
If there is a tie, return the smaller one as answer.

*Reverse Pairs*
Given an array nums, we call (i, j) an important reverse pair if i < j and nums[i] > 2*nums[j].
You need to return the number of important reverse pairs in the given array.

```Input: [1,3,2,3,1]
Output: 2

Input: [2,4,3,5,1]
Output: 3```
The length of the given array will not exceed 50,000.
All the numbers in the input array are in the range of 32-bit integer.

(Note:  This is one of the hardest problems I have ever ran into. I did not solve it, and there was no way I could have solved it.  I am still nowhere close to understanding the solution entirely.  I will be dedicating a full day or even a weekend understanding everything the _various_ advanced techniques that can be utilized to solve this problem.  This one is a jaw dropper for me).

*=== Saturday August 11th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*Median of Two Sorted Arrays*
There are two sorted arrays `nums1` and `nums2` of size `m` and `n` respectively.
Find the median of the two sorted arrays.
The overall run time complexity should be `O(log (m+n))`.
You may assume `nums1` and `nums2` cannot be both empty.

Example 1:
```nums1 = [1, 3]
nums2 = [2]```
The median is 2.0

Example 2:
```nums1 = [1, 2]
nums2 = [3, 4]```
The median is (2 + 3)/2 = 2.5


*=== Sunday August 12th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Array Merge]*
Merge two sorted arrays together in `O(n)` time complexity.


*[Candy]*

There are N children standing in a line. Each child is assigned a rating value.

You are giving candies to these children subjected to the following requirements:
* Each child must have at least one candy.
* Children with a higher rating get more candies than their neighbors.
* What is the minimum candies you must give?

Example 1:
```Input: [1,0,2]
Output: 5```
Explanation:
You can allocate to the first, second and third child with 2, 1, 2 candies respectively.

Example 2:
```Input: [1,2,2]
Output: 4```
Explanation:
You can allocate to the first, second and third child with 1, 2, 1 candies respectively.
The third child gets 1 candy because it satisfies the above two conditions.


*=== Monday August 13th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[World's Hardest Easy Geometry Problem]*
http://thinkzone.wlonk.com/MathFun/Triangle.htm
Quite an interesting problem here!  I won't have time to tackle it today, but def want to share it if someone is interested.

*[The Skyline]*
A city's skyline is the outer contour of the silhouette formed by all the buildings in that city when viewed from a distance. Now suppose you are given the locations and height of all the buildings as shown on a cityscape photo (Figure A), write a program to output the skyline formed by these buildings collectively (Figure B).

The geometric information of each building is represented by a triplet of integers [Li, Ri, Hi], where Li and Ri are the x coordinates of the left and right edge of the ith building, respectively, and Hi is its height. It is guaranteed that 0 ≤ Li, Ri ≤ INT_MAX, 0 < Hi ≤ INT_MAX, and Ri - Li > 0. You may assume all buildings are perfect rectangles grounded on an absolutely flat surface at height 0.

For instance, the dimensions of all buildings in Figure A are recorded as: [ [2 9 10], [3 7 15], [5 12 12], [15 20 10], [19 24 8] ] .

The output is a list of "key points" (red dots in Figure B) in the format of [ [x1,y1], [x2, y2], [x3, y3], ... ] that uniquely defines a skyline. A key point is the left endpoint of a horizontal line segment. Note that the last key point, where the rightmost building ends, is merely used to mark the termination of the skyline, and always has zero height. Also, the ground in between any two adjacent buildings should be considered part of the skyline contour.

For instance, the skyline in Figure B should be represented as:[ [2 10], [3 15], [7 12], [12 0], [15 10], [20 8], [24, 0] ].

Notes:
The number of buildings in any input list is guaranteed to be in the range [0, 10000].
The input list is already sorted in ascending order by the left x position Li.
The output list must be sorted by the x position.
There must be no consecutive horizontal lines of equal height in the output skyline. For instance, [...[2 3], [4 5], [7 5], [11 5], [12 7]...] is not acceptable; the three lines of height 5 should be merged into one in the final output as such: [...[2 3], [4 5], [12 7], ...]


*=== Tuesday August 14th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

I've been posting lots of advanced questions, so I'm posting some fundamental questions.  For today, we are going to look at array operations!  (They are in increasing difficulty).

*[Reverse]*
Write a function that returns a new array containing all the elements of the original array in reverse order.

Example:
```reverse(["a", "b", "c"])     //=> ["c", "b", "a"]
reverse([1])               //=> [1]```

*[Rotate]*
Write a function `rotate` that returns the array rotated.
By default, the array should rotate by one element.
If a negative value is given, the array is rotated in the opposite direction.

```array = [ "a", "b", "c", "d" ]
rotate(array)         //=> ["b", "c", "d", "a"]
rotate(array, 2)      //=> ["c", "d", "a", "b"]
rotate(array, -3)     //=> ["b", "c", "d", "a"]
rotate(array, 15)     //=> ["d", "a", "b", "c"]```

*[Flatten]*
Flatten should return all elements of the array into a new, one-dimensional array. Hint: use recursion!

Example:
```flatten([1, 2, 3, [4, [5, 6]], [[[7]], 8]]) // => [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8]```

*[Zip]*
Write zip to take any number of arguments.
It should return a new array containing length of the first array argument.
Each element of the new array should be an array with a length of the input arguments + 1 and contain the merged elements at that index.
If the size of any argument is less than the first array, null is returned for that location.

Example:
```a = [ 4, 5, 6 ]
b = [ 7, 8, 9 ]
c = [10, 11, 12]
d = [13, 14, 15]

zip([1, 2, 3], a, b)    //=> [[1, 4, 7], [2, 5, 8], [3, 6, 9]]
zip(a, [1,2], [8])      //=> [[4, 1, 8], [5, 2, nil], [6, nil, nil]]
zip([1, 2], a, b)       //=> [[1, 4, 7], [2, 5, 8]]
zip([1, 2], a, b, c, d) //=> [[1, 4, 7, 10, 13], [2, 5, 8, 11, 14]]```


*=== Wednesday August 15th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Socks]*
There are 20 different socks of two types in a drawer in a completely dark room. What is the minimum number of socks you should grab to ensure you have a matching pair?

*[Partition Label]*
A string S of lowercase letters is given. We want to partition this string into as many parts as possible so that each letter appears in at most one part, and return a list of integers representing the size of these parts.

Example:
```Input: S = "ababcbacadefegdehijhklij"
Output: [9,7,8]```

Explanation:
The partition is "ababcbaca", "defegde", "hijhklij".
This is a partition so that each letter appears in at most one part.
A partition like "ababcbacadefegde", "hijhklij" is incorrect, because it splits S into less parts.

* `S` will have length in range [1, 500].
* `S` will consist of lowercase letters ('a' to 'z') only. 


*=== Thursday August 16th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Non-Decreasing Array]*
Given an array with n integers, your task is to check if it could become non-decreasing by modifying at most 1 element.
We define an array is non-decreasing if array[i] <= array[i + 1] holds for every i (1 <= i < n).

Example 1:
```Input: [4,2,3]
Output: True```
Explanation: You could modify the first 4 to 1 to get a non-decreasing array.

Example 2:
```Input: [4,2,1]
Output: False```
Explanation: You can't get a non-decreasing array by modify at most one element.

Note: The n belongs to [1, 10,000].


*=== Friday August 17th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Root of a Number]*
Many times, we need to re-implement basic functions without using any standard library functions already implemented. For example, when designing a chip that requires very little memory space.

In this question we’ll implement a function root that calculates the `n`’th root of a number. The function takes a non-negative number `x` and a positive integer `n`, and returns the positive `n`’th root of `x` within an error of `0.001` (i.e. suppose the real root is `y`, then the error is: `|y-root(x,n)|` and must satisfy `|y-root(x,n)| < 0.001`).

Don’t be intimidated by the question. While there are many algorithms to calculate roots that require prior knowledge in numerical analysis (some of them are mentioned here), there is also an elementary method which doesn’t require more than guessing-and-checking. Try to think more in terms of the latter.

Make sure your algorithm is efficient, and analyze its time and space complexities.

Examples:
```input:  x = 7, n = 3
output: 1.913

input:  x = 9, n = 2
output: 3```


*=== Saturday August 18th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Sales Path]*
The car manufacturer Honda holds their distribution system in the form of a tree (not necessarily binary). The root is the company itself, and every node in the tree represents a car distributor that receives cars from the parent node and ships them to its children nodes. The leaf nodes are car dealerships that sell cars direct to consumers. In addition, every node holds an integer that is the cost of shipping a car to it.

Take for example the tree below:

A path from Honda’s factory to a car dealership, which is a path from the root to a leaf in the tree, is called a Sales Path. The cost of a Sales Path is the sum of the costs for every node in the path. For example, in the tree above one Sales Path is `0→3→0→10`, and its cost is `13` (0+3+0+10).

Honda wishes to find the minimal Sales Path cost in its distribution tree. Given a node `rootNode`, write a function `getCheapestCost` that calculates the minimal Sales Path cost in the tree.  Implement your function in the most efficient manner and analyze its time and space complexities.

For example, given the rootNode of the tree in diagram above, your function would return `7` since it’s the minimal Sales Path cost (there are actually two Sales Paths in the tree whose cost is 7: `0→6→1` and `0→3→2→1→1`)


*=== Sunday August 19th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[In Words]*
Write an algorithm that prints an integer in words.
The numbers range from 0 to 1,000,000,000 (trillion).

Examples:
```inWords(5) // five
inWords(15) // fifteen
inWords(45) // fourty five
inWords(151) // one hundred fifty one
inWords(1515) // fifteen thousand fifteen
inWords(151515) // fifteen thousand fifteen hundred fifteen
inWords(2000000) // two million
inWords(1000000000) // one trillion```


*=== Tuesday August 21st 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[DNA Compliment]*
In a DNA string, symbols `A` and `T` are complements of each other, as are `C` and `G`.
```A <-> T
C <-> G```

Write a function called dnaTransform that takes in a DNA string and returns a string that represents it's compliment.

Examples:
```findDnaCompliment('AC') === 'TG'
findDnaCompliment('ATCG') === 'TAGC'
findDnaCompliment('GATTACA') === 'CTAATGT'```

*[Line Intersection]*
Given points A and B corresponding to line AB and points P and Q corresponding to line PQ, find the point of intersection of these lines. The points are given in 2D Plane with their X and Y Coordinates.

Examples:
```Input : A = (1, 1), B = (4, 4)
        C = (1, 8), D = (2, 4)
Output : The intersection of the given lines 
         AB and CD is: (2.4, 2.4)

Input : A = (0, 1), B = (0, 4)
        C = (1, 8), D = (1, 4)
Output : The given lines AB and CD are parallel.```

*=== Wednesday August 22nd 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Overlapping Sum]*

Given two arrays `A[]` and `B[]` having n unique elements each. The task is to find the overlapping sum of the two arrays. That is the sum of elements which is common in both of the arrays.

Note: Elements in the arrays are unique. That is the array does not contains duplicates.

Examples:
```Input : A[] = {1, 5, 3, 8}
        B[] = {5, 4, 6, 7}
Output : 10

Explanation : The element which is common in both arrays is 5.
Therefore, the overlapping sum will be (5+5) = 10

Input : A[] = {1, 5, 3, 8}
        B[] = {5, 1, 8, 3}
Output : 99```
Brute Force: `O(n^2)`
Optimal: `O(n)`


*=== Thursday August 23rd 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Move Zeros]*

Given an array, move all zeros to the end. The order of non-zero elements does not matter.

```move_zeros([1, 2, 0, 3, 4, 0, 5, 6, 0]) == [1, 2, 6, 3, 4, 5, 0, 0, 0]```

Time Complexity: O(n)
Space Complexity: O(1)


*=== Friday August 24th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Supermarket Queue]*

There is a queue for the self-serving checkout stations at the supermarket. Your task is write a function that calculates the total time required for all the customers to check out.

`findQueueTime(customersQueue, stationsCount)`:
• `customersQueue`: an array of positive integers representing the queue. Each integer represents a customer, and its value is the number of minutes they require to check out.
• `stationsCount`: a positive integer, the number of checkout stations.
• The function should return an integer that represents the total number of minutes required to process all the customers.

Examples:
```queueTime([5,3,4], 1) 
// Returns 12
// Where there is only one station, the total time is just the sum of all the customer check out times.  

queueTime([10,2,3,3], 2)
// Return 10
// When there are two stations: 
// Station 1 processes the 1st customer for 10 minutes. 
// Station 2 processes the 2nd, 3rd and 4th customer for 8 minutes (2+3+3)

queueTime([2,3,10], 2)
// Returns 12
// Station 1 processes the 1st customer for 2 minutes. 
// Station 2 processes the 2nd customer for 3 minutes.
// Station 1 is done with the 1st customer and processes 3rd customer for 10 minutes```


*=== Saturday August 25th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*
*[Spiral Matrix]*

Given a 2D array, print it in spiral form.

Examples:
```Input:
[
  [1,  2,  3,  4 ],
  [5,  6,  7,  8 ],
  [9,  10, 11, 12],
  [13, 14, 15, 16]
]

Output: 
1 2 3 4 8 12 16 15 14 13 9 5 6 7 11 10

Input:
[
  [1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6 ],
  [7,  8,  9,  10, 11, 12],
  [13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18]
]

Output: 
1 2 3 4 5 6 12 18 17 16 15 14 13 7 8 9 10 11```

*[Level-order Traversal]*
Given a binary tree, print level-order traversal in a way that nodes of all levels are printed in separate lines.

      ```1
    /   \
   2     3
 /  \     \
4    5     6
    / \   /
   7   8 9

Output: 
1
2 3
4 5 6
7 8 9```

The level-order traversal problem is a really good one.  It tests your fundamental knowledge with trees.  Study depth-first search and breadth-first search, then try tackling the problem.


*=== Sunday August 26th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Subset Sum]*
Given a set of non-negative integers, and a value sum, determine if there is a subset of the given set with sum equal to given sum.

Examples:
```const set = [3, 34, 4, 12, 5, 2]
const sum = 9

findSubsetSum(set, sum) // true - a subset [4, 5] with the sum of 9.

---

findSubsetSum([1, 2, 3], 2) === true
findSubsetSum([11, 2, 3], 8) === false
findSubsetSum([5, 2, 6, 3, 4], 9) === true```

There are two solutions to this problem:
1) Brute Force: O(n^2)
1) Optimal: O(sum * n) using dynamic programming

*[Balanced Brackets]*
_This has been posted before, but I'm posting it again because it's important, and it is a question that chad got in an actual interview_

A bracket is considered to be any one of the following characters: `(`, `)`, `{`, `}`, `[`, or `]`.  Brackets are balanced if all brackets have matching left and right pairs:  `(` and `)` / `{` and `}` / `[` and `]`.

Write a function that determines if the given string has balanced brackets.

Examples:
```'()' => true
'([])' => true
'(()' => false
'(()(' => false
'((1))' => true
'(1[2]3)' => true
'{(1[2]3)4}' => true
'{((1[2]3)4}' => false```


*=== Monday August 27th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*Queue Explanation*: https://github.com/OperationCode/algorithms/tree/master/solutions/data-structures/queue
*Stack Explanation*: https://github.com/OperationCode/algorithms/tree/master/solutions/data-structures/stack

*[Stack Queue]*
Implement a stack using only the queue data structure.

Create a new data structure `QueueStack` that utilizes a queue data structure to simulate a stack behavior.
Hint:  multiple queues can be used

```push() -- Push element onto stack.
pop() -- Removes the element on top of the stack.
peek() -- Get the top element.```

```class Queue {
  constructor() {}
  enqueue() {}
  dequeue() {}
  peek() {}
}

class QueueStack {
  constructor() {
    this.store = new Queue()
  }

  push() {}
  pop() {}
  peek() {}
}

const queueStack = new QueueStack();

queueStack.push(1);
queueStack.push(2);  
queueStack.peek();  // returns 2
queueStack.pop();   // returns 2```


*=== Tuesday August 28th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[MinStack]*

Design a `MinStack` that finds the minimum (`findMin()`) in O(1) time complexity.

Example:
```16  --> TOP
15
29
19
18

getMin() => 15
pop() => 16
pop() => 15

29  --> TOP
19
18

getMin() => 18```

Class structure:
```class MinStack {
  contructor()
  push()
  pop()
  peek()
  findMin()
}```

The key is solving this in O(1) time complexity, meaning that when `findMin()` is called, the minimum is found without traversing the stack.  O(1) means _constant time complexity_ which says that whether there are 3 elements in the stack or 3 million elements, it will take the exact same amount of time to find the minimum.


*=== Wednesday August 29th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Tower of Hanoi]*
Tower of Hanoi is a mathematical puzzle where we have three rods and n disks. The objective of the puzzle is to move the entire stack to another rod, obeying the following simple rules:
1) Only one disk can be moved at a time.
2) Each move consists of taking the upper disk from one of the stacks and placing it on top of another stack i.e. a disk can only be moved if it is the uppermost disk on a stack.
3) No disk may be placed on top of a smaller disk.

Examples:
```Input : 2
Output : Disk 1 moved from A to B
         Disk 2 moved from A to C
         Disk 1 moved from B to C

Input : 3
Output : Disk 1 moved from A to C
         Disk 2 moved from A to B
         Disk 1 moved from C to B
         Disk 3 moved from A to C
         Disk 1 moved from B to A
         Disk 2 moved from B to C
         Disk 1 moved from A to C```

Write an algorithm that prints each step required to solve for 3 rods and `n` disks.


*=== Thursday August 30th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Tic-Tac-Toe Solver]*

Provided a Tic-Tac-Toe board, determine the game's winner.

Examples:
```Winner: 2
[[2, 2, 0],
 [2, 1, 0],
 [2, 1, 1]]

Winner: 1
[[1, 2, 0],
 [2, 1, 0],
 [2, 1, 1]]

Winner: 1
[[0, 1, 0],
 [2, 1, 0],
 [2, 1, 1]]

Winner: none/undefined/null
[[1, 2, 0],
 [2, 1, 0],
 [2, 1, 2]]

Winner: none/undefined/null
[[1, 2, 0],
 [2, 1, 0],
 [2, 1, 0]]```


*=== Friday August 31st 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Sieve of Eratosthenes]*
Read: https://www.smartickmethod.com/blog/math/operations-and-algebraic-thinking/divisibility/prime-numbers-sieve-eratosthenes/

Implement a Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm that returns an array of primes upto and including `n`.

Examples:
```findPrimes(10) // [1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 9]
findPrimes(11) // [1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11]```


*=== Saturday September 1st 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Largest Prime Factor]*
The prime factors of `13195` are `5`, `7`, `13` and `29`.
Write an algorithm that finds the largest prime factor for the number `600851475143`.

*[Keys and Rooms]*
There are `N` rooms and you start in room `0`.  Each room has a distinct number in `0, 1, 2, ..., N-1`, and each room may have some keys to access the next room. Formally, each room `i` has a list of keys `rooms[i]`, and each key `rooms[i][j]` is an integer in `[0, 1, ..., N-1`] where `N = rooms.length`.  A key `rooms[i][j] = v` opens the room with number `v`.

Write an algorithm that checks if you can enter every room.

• Initially, all the rooms start locked (except for room 0).
• You can walk back and forth between rooms freely.

Examples:
```Input: [[1],[2],[3],[]]
Output: true

Explanation:  
We start in room 0, and pick up key 1.
We then go to room 1, and pick up key 2.
We then go to room 2, and pick up key 3.
We then go to room 3.  Since we were able to go to every room, we return true.```

```Input: [[1,3],[3,0,1],[2],[0]]
Output: false
Explanation:
We can't enter the room with number 2.```

Constraints:
```1 <= rooms.length <= 1000
0 <= rooms[i].length <= 1000
The number of keys in all rooms combined is at most 3000.```


*=== Sunday Sep 2nd 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Gamma Function]*

The Gamma Function is defined `Γ(n) = (n-1)!`.
Write a recursive algorithm that solves a gamma function

Examples:
```solveGammaFn(0) === undefined
solveGammaFn(1) === 1
solveGammaFn(4) === 6
solveGammaFn(8) === 5040```


*=== Monday Sep 3rd 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

You are given a map in form of a two-dimensional integer grid where 1 represents land and 0 represents water. Grid cells are connected horizontally/vertically (not diagonally). The grid is completely surrounded by water, and there is exactly one island (i.e., one or more connected land cells). The island doesn't have "lakes" (water inside that isn't connected to the water around the island). One cell is a square with side length 1. The grid is rectangular, width and height don't exceed 100.

Determine the perimeter of the island.


*=== Tuesday Sep 4th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Plus One]*

You are given a positive integer in the form of an array, where each element in the array represents the digit in the integer (`1234` is represented as `[1, 2, 3, 4]`).  Write a function that adds `1` to the array.

Examples:
```plusOne([1, 2, 3, 4]) === [1, 2, 3, 5]
plusOne([1, 2, 3, 9]) === [1, 2, 4, 0]
plusOne([9]) === [1, 0]
plusOne([9, 9]) === [1, 0, 0]```


*=== Thursday Sep 7th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Roman Numeral]*

Convert the given number into a roman numeral.

```convertToRoman(2) === 'II'
convertToRoman(4) === 'IV'
convertToRoman(5) === 'V'
convertToRoman(9) === 'IX'
convertToRoman(12) === 'XII'
convertToRoman(16) === 'XVI'
convertToRoman(29) === 'XXIX'
convertToRoman(44) === 'XLIV'
convertToRoman(45) === 'XLV'
convertToRoman(68) === 'LXVIII'
convertToRoman(83) === 'LXXXIII'
convertToRoman(97) === 'XCVII'
convertToRoman(99) === 'XCIX'
convertToRoman(400) === 'CD'
convertToRoman(500) === 'D'
convertToRoman(501) === 'DI'
convertToRoman(649) === 'DCXLIX'
convertToRoman(798) === 'DCCXCVIII'
convertToRoman(891) === 'DCCCXCI'
convertToRoman(1000) === 'M'
convertToRoman(1004) === 'MIV'
convertToRoman(1006) === 'MVI'
convertToRoman(1023) === 'MXXIII'
convertToRoman(2014) === 'MMXIV'
convertToRoman(3999) === 'MMMCMXCIX'```


*=== Monday Sep 10th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Daily Temperatures]*

Given a list of daily temperatures, produce a list that, for each day in the input, tells you how many days you would have to wait until a warmer temperature. If there is no future day for which this is possible, put 0 instead.

For example, given the list `temperatures = [73, 74, 75, 71, 69, 72, 76, 73]`, your output should be `[1, 1, 4, 2, 1, 1, 0, 0].`

Note:
The length of temperatures will be in the range `[1, 30000]`.
Each temperature will be an integer in the range `[30, 100]`.

^ This was an on-site interview question at Google. 


*=== Tuesday Sep 11th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Counting Bits]*

For every numbers `i` in the range `0 ≤ i ≤ num` calculate the number of 1's in their binary representation and return them as an array.  `num` is a non-negative integer.

Examples:
```Input: 2
Output: [0,1,1]

Input: 5
Output: [0,1,1,2,1,2]```

* Time Complexity:  `O(n)`
* Space Complexity: `O(n)`


*=== Wednesday Sep 12th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Hamming Weight]*
Write a function that takes an unsigned integer and returns the number of '1' bits it has (also known as the Hamming weight).

Hamming Weight:  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_weight

```Input: 11
Output: 3
Explanation: Integer 11 has binary representation 00000000000000000000000000001011 

Input: 128
Output: 1
Explanation: Integer 128 has binary representation 00000000000000000000000010000000```
(edited)
(Hamming weight is also known as `popcount`)


*=== Thursday Sep 13th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Complex Number Multiplication]*
Given two strings representing two complex numbers, multiply the numbers and return the result.

```Input: "1+1i", "1+1i"
Output: "0+2i"
Explanation: (1 + i) * (1 + i) = 1 + i2 + 2 * i = 2i, 
(Then converto to the form of 0+2i)

Input: "1+-1i", "1+-1i"
Output: "0+-2i"
Explanation: (1 - i) * (1 - i) = 1 + i2 - 2 * i = -2i```

*[Stopwatch]*
Design *OOP class structure* for a stopwatch.



*=== Friday Sep 14th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Parking Lot]*

Design a parking lot.

*=== Monday Sep 17th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Largest Product in a Series]*

The four adjacent digits in the 1000-digit number that have the greatest product are 9 × 9 × 8 × 9 = 5832.

```
731671765313306249192251196744265747423553491949349698352
031277450632623957831801698480186947885184385861560789112
949495459501737958331952853208805511125406987471585238630
507156932909632952274430435576689664895044524452316173185
640309871112172238311362229893423380308135336276614282806
444486645238749303589072962904915604407723907138105158593
079608667017242712188399879790879227492190169972088809377
665727333001053367881220235421809751254540594752243525849
077116705560136048395864467063244157221553975369781797784
617406495514929086256932197846862248283972241375657056057
490261407972968652414535100474821663704844031998900088952
434506585412275886668811642717147992444292823086346567481
391912316282458617866458359124566529476545682848912883142
607690042242190226710556263211111093705442175069416589604
080719840385096245544436298123098787992724428490918884580
156166097919133875499200524063689912560717606058861164671
094050775410022569831552000559357297257163626956188267042
8252483600823257530420752963450```

Find the thirteen adjacent digits in the 1000-digit number that have the greatest product. 
What is the value of this product? (edited)
(solution in daily-py/max_product.py)


*=== Wednesday Sep 18th 2018 - Daily Programmer ===*

*[Large Sum]*
(see daily-py/largest_sum.py for the solution)

Work out the first ten digits of the sum of the following one-hundred 50-digit numbers.

37107287533902102798797998220837590246510135740250
46376937677490009712648124896970078050417018260538
74324986199524741059474233309513058123726617309629
91942213363574161572522430563301811072406154908250
23067588207539346171171980310421047513778063246676
89261670696623633820136378418383684178734361726757
28112879812849979408065481931592621691275889832738
44274228917432520321923589422876796487670272189318
47451445736001306439091167216856844588711603153276
70386486105843025439939619828917593665686757934951
62176457141856560629502157223196586755079324193331
64906352462741904929101432445813822663347944758178
92575867718337217661963751590579239728245598838407
58203565325359399008402633568948830189458628227828
80181199384826282014278194139940567587151170094390
35398664372827112653829987240784473053190104293586
86515506006295864861532075273371959191420517255829
71693888707715466499115593487603532921714970056938
54370070576826684624621495650076471787294438377604
53282654108756828443191190634694037855217779295145
36123272525000296071075082563815656710885258350721
45876576172410976447339110607218265236877223636045
17423706905851860660448207621209813287860733969412
81142660418086830619328460811191061556940512689692
51934325451728388641918047049293215058642563049483
62467221648435076201727918039944693004732956340691
15732444386908125794514089057706229429197107928209
55037687525678773091862540744969844508330393682126
18336384825330154686196124348767681297534375946515
80386287592878490201521685554828717201219257766954
78182833757993103614740356856449095527097864797581
16726320100436897842553539920931837441497806860984
48403098129077791799088218795327364475675590848030
87086987551392711854517078544161852424320693150332
59959406895756536782107074926966537676326235447210
69793950679652694742597709739166693763042633987085
41052684708299085211399427365734116182760315001271
65378607361501080857009149939512557028198746004375
35829035317434717326932123578154982629742552737307
94953759765105305946966067683156574377167401875275
88902802571733229619176668713819931811048770190271
25267680276078003013678680992525463401061632866526
36270218540497705585629946580636237993140746255962
24074486908231174977792365466257246923322810917141
91430288197103288597806669760892938638285025333403
34413065578016127815921815005561868836468420090470
23053081172816430487623791969842487255036638784583
11487696932154902810424020138335124462181441773470
63783299490636259666498587618221225225512486764533
67720186971698544312419572409913959008952310058822
95548255300263520781532296796249481641953868218774
76085327132285723110424803456124867697064507995236
37774242535411291684276865538926205024910326572967
23701913275725675285653248258265463092207058596522
29798860272258331913126375147341994889534765745501
18495701454879288984856827726077713721403798879715
38298203783031473527721580348144513491373226651381
34829543829199918180278916522431027392251122869539
40957953066405232632538044100059654939159879593635
29746152185502371307642255121183693803580388584903
41698116222072977186158236678424689157993532961922
62467957194401269043877107275048102390895523597457
23189706772547915061505504953922979530901129967519
86188088225875314529584099251203829009407770775672
11306739708304724483816533873502340845647058077308
82959174767140363198008187129011875491310547126581
97623331044818386269515456334926366572897563400500
42846280183517070527831839425882145521227251250327
55121603546981200581762165212827652751691296897789
32238195734329339946437501907836945765883352399886
75506164965184775180738168837861091527357929701337
62177842752192623401942399639168044983993173312731
32924185707147349566916674687634660915035914677504
99518671430235219628894890102423325116913619626622
73267460800591547471830798392868535206946944540724
76841822524674417161514036427982273348055556214818
97142617910342598647204516893989422179826088076852
87783646182799346313767754307809363333018982642090
10848802521674670883215120185883543223812876952786
71329612474782464538636993009049310363619763878039
62184073572399794223406235393808339651327408011116
66627891981488087797941876876144230030984490851411
60661826293682836764744779239180335110989069790714
85786944089552990653640447425576083659976645795096
66024396409905389607120198219976047599490197230297
64913982680032973156037120041377903785566085089252
16730939319872750275468906903707539413042652315011
94809377245048795150954100921645863754710598436791
78639167021187492431995700641917969777599028300699
15368713711936614952811305876380278410754449733078
40789923115535562561142322423255033685442488917353
44889911501440648020369068063960672322193204149535
41503128880339536053299340368006977710650566631954
81234880673210146739058568557934581403627822703280
82616570773948327592232845941706525094512325230608
22918802058777319719839450180888072429661980811197
77158542502016545090413245809786882778948721859617
72107838435069186155435662884062257473692284509516
20849603980134001723930671666823555245252804609722
53503534226472524250874054075591789781264330331690
